Update Home Page and Dashboards app documentation - OSD PR4 (#12431)
opensearch-project/documentation-website: _dashboards/dashboard/adding-a-viz.md

---
layout: default

> title: Adding a visualization to a dashbaord

Reviewer: Typo in the page title: `dashbaord` → `dashboard`. This will appear in the rendered nav.

```suggestion
title: Adding a visualization to a dashboard
```

parent: Creating dashboards
nav_order: 20
has_children: false
---

# Adding a visualization to a dashboard

You can add an existing panel to a dashboard or create a new visualization directly in a dashboard.

## Prerequisites

You can add a visualization to a dashboard only when you have the dashboard open for editing. See [Opening a dashboard]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/dashboards/dashboard/opening-a-dashboard/).

## Creating a new visualization in a dashboard

You can create a new visualization, but not a new search, in a dashboard.

To add a search to a dashboard, you must create it in the Discover application, then add it. See [Exploring data with Discover]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/dashboards/discover/index-discover/).
{: .note}

To create a new visualization in a dashboard, follow these steps:

1. From the application toolbar, choose **Create new**.

1. From the **New Visualization** window, choose a visualization type.

> 1. In the **New Metric/Choose a source** dialog, select an index pattern.

Reviewer: The previous step says "choose a visualization type," but this step hard-codes the Metric dialog. The dialog title varies with the chosen type (e.g., **New Pie/Choose a source**). Suggested generalization:

```suggestion
1. In the **New _\<type\>_/Choose a source** dialog, select an index pattern.
```

   Rather than a source selection dialog at this point, advanced visualization tools like Maps and VisBuilder have source selection built into the tool.
   {: .note}

> 1. The Dashboards application displays the default (count) visualization in the Visualize app.

Reviewer: Minor: "in the Visualize app" is misleading — creating a viz from a dashboard keeps you in the Dashboards-context Visualize editor, not the standalone Visualize application. Worth rewording to avoid the confusion.

```suggestion
1. The Dashboards application opens the Visualize editor and displays the default (count) visualization.
```
